2023 is upon us. One more year. What is this
guy doing? New Year Resolution? To Exercise??
To exercise his right to eat burgers any time
he wants..!! What is the problem with New
Year Resolutions? How can we do them differently?
That is what we are going to address today!
Vanakkam! Resolution.. Re-Solution? Are we
searching for a “solution”, really? What
do we look for every time a New Year comes
around? How do we even get ourselves to think
that we can achieve something that has never
before been achieved by us?
It seems they did some research and tracked
the progress of about a hundred people. About
their New Year Resolutions. They start on
January One, and one week later, that new
habit of hitting the gym, getting up early
in the morning, the promise not to touch non-veg
ever again, perhaps quitting smoking finally
once and for all, whatever, one week later,
are you still at it, they wanted to know!
Thousands of people were surveyed, but if
you were to consider a sample size of a hundred
people, seventy seven percent (ONLY) continued
past one week. Already, one fourth of them
have given up.. But, that’s good news. Seventy
seven percent are continuing even after a
week has gone by.
But, do you know the bad news? The bad news
is the same group was tracked TWO YEARS from
the date of that New Year Resolution. How
many of you are STILL AT IT, two years from
the day you started? To jog daily, for example…
Are you still at it two years later? THAT
is the number. Less than one-fifth of the
people who take on resolutions actually continue
seriously at it.
And, it has become so “pandemically” bad
that they have even instituted a World Quitters
Day. The Second Friday of January. Every year,
the second Friday of the first month of the
year is called the Quitters Day, for that’s
when, most of the pretenders and wannabes
throw their hands up, and tear everything
up and swing back to their old, original,
dull and boring, limited self.
A friend of mine by name Kapil actually recently
drew this beautiful cartoon. On New Year Day,
he wakes up at 5 am. Cycles. Runs. Does weights
in the gym. But… you know what’s going
to happen.. On 5th Jan, he wakes up only at
5:30 am, cycles, runs, but doesn’t turn
up at the gym. On 9th Jan, 6:30 am, doesn’t
run either. But, by the time it is 10th Jan,
(13th Jan is World Quitters Day by the way!),
10th Jan he is still in bed and all those
resolutions are forgotten. Is there a scientific
reason? Can we derive a few reasons why this
could be happening? I see three! The first
thing is he has taken on a chain! Did he accept
one challenge? Only one? Already a late-riser,
which means he is already troubling himself
too much by forcing himself to get up that
early. Then cycling, then running, then weight-lifting.
Chaining. Start one at a time. Also, when
you start one at a time, when you take on
that one, it should be atomic. Try lifting
just the rod alone without any additional
weights! Or, just go to the gym, climb the
stairs, watch, look around, come back, that’s
exercise enough for you. Start atomically.
The third mistake is, he is all by himself.
We will come back to this later in the talk
today. Lonely. All by himself.
The Atomic Habits book. We have seen this
earlier too. By James Clear. In that book,
he talks about how to strengthen and cement
and make a habit permanent. He gives four
beautiful tricks. Each related to the other.
The first thing he says is, “Make it easy
for the hands”. So, for example, if your
intent is to stop junk food and start eating
fruits instead, try and choose a fruit that
doesn’t require too much preparation, cleaning,
and presentation! If it requires all that
mess before you can eat it, it is not easy
on your hands! And probably you may not get
into the habit. The second advice, “Keep
it attractive to the eyes”. Do you already
like the jackfruit? (Well, it fails the first
test, sorry!) Do you already like bananas?
Use that! When setting up targets, instead
of obsessing over your fruit intake, specifically
a particular fruit intake, why not just make
it easier by generalising it to Fruits, and
take your favourite fruit until the habit
is cemented? Keep it attractive to the eyes.
The third advice? Keep it satisfying to the
heart. You switched from junk food, didn’t
you? While coming to eat fruits instead? Have
you ever felt a warm feeling in your heart
when you gave money to the shopkeeper and
brought home a pack of chips?! No! On the
other hand, you go to the lady at the street-corner
and buy some fruits, and without bargaining,
you give her a little tip, “Keep the change!”,
… you are adding an extra bonus there, you
are also warming your heart. So, keep it satisfying
to the heart! And finally, keep it in front
of your face! Hide the unhealthy snack. Far
from your reach. Locked up somewhere. If you
really need it, you can fetch a ladder, get
the key, and unlock the junk! But have these
fruits on the dining table, right at the third
level in the fridge, have stickers that remind
you that fruits are there.. In front of your
face! E. A. S. I. Easy!
This person is Jack Butcher. He runs a beautiful
website, has a Twitter account and an Instagram
account. His specialisation today (he has
been an ad man!) is he visualises concepts
in very simple terms and makes you really
think. Take a look at these pictures. The
three pictures that I am going to show you
are all pairs.. Of This Versus That. I thought
these three sets were relevant for the New
Year Resolution thing we were talking about.
Days Versus Decades. This is how the days
are going to be. Do not expect Perfection
in your Quest. Have a Quest FOR Perfection.
This is Quest For Perfection. Need to keep
getting better. Must reach great heights.
Etc. But, that is not how the days are going
to be. There will be Ups. There will be Downs.
Here is another. Aiming High Versus Aiming
Low. If you aim low, even if you HIT your
mark, where are you?! If you aim high, even
if you miss your mark, where are you?! So,
you tell me, where are you going to aim?!
The third set I want to show you, from Jack
Butcher, is this one. Get Going Versus Get
Good. Too many among us make this mistake.
If I start it, I should do it only if I will
do a really good job. Else, not at all. If
it is not really exceptional, soon after I
start, I would rather stop. Instead, the author
says, focus on just getting out of your bed!
Just get out of your bed. The gym will wait
for you. Then, just walk to the gym. Don’t
even knock the door. Just walk to the gym
and come back. Then, enter the gym, walk around
inside the gym, then.. touch the metal, feel
it, move things around, learn how to operate
things, look around at the other people, say
hi!, then, .. probably set it at the lowest
setting and spend thirty seconds pulling the
wires. That’s how you improve. You have
to Get Going, and once you get going, Newton’s
First Law, once you overcome the inertia,
Getting Good is BOUND to happen. The problem
is when we focus on getting good before even
we really get going.
Do you remember this story? We have talked
about this extensively. That jar. The rocks.
The gravel, little stones. And sand. We talked
about how prioritisation was so important.
I am going to give you three twists. Think
about it.
Here is Twist Number One. Whoever said that
all this has to be stuffed into this single
jar?? These have to be placed in a jar, is
that not it? Well, let me bring my friend’s
jar, let me bring my colleague’s jar, let
me bring my maanger’s jar! Who stopped you
from thinking like that? This is what they
call the Growth Mindset. Don’t be set into
a box. Nobody drew that box around you. It
was of your own making.
Here is another Twist. Who told you that you
can’t get yourself a Bigger Jar? How did
you end up with THAT Jar? You wake up at a
particular time, you go to bed at a particular
time, you have a particular set way of work,
probably a suboptimal way.. Do you know how
much time you waste in a day? Who is keeping
track? If we do that perhaps, we will know
we actually have access to a larger jar!
Okay, here is the third Twist. Who told you
that you need to fit in all those rocks? Rocks
aren’t a simple matter. Whether you place
them in the beginning or tag them along in
the end, it is a tough job. So, choose one
big thing, not multiple big things. The smaller
things can be a few more, you can handle them.
But, focusing on one big thing itself is hard.
Don’t take on too many rocks. Also, have
you wondered if you could get yourself a hammer?
If you encounter a rock, perhaps you can pulverise
it into sand, and the whole game changes,
did you notice?! That is the mindset I want
you to have, when listening to this story
again.
Do you remember, we called that guy “Lonely”?
I did that because I felt that they failed
to involve the most powerful force in the
game. Which is the Power of Others. What will
others think if they come to know that I have
set this as my goal?? — If that is what
your fear is going to be, probably it is not
a goal worth pursuing in the first place.
You have a goal? Others should be proud. Others
should be happy. Others should thank you for
having that as your goal!
There are many reasons why this really works
out, the first one being the spiritual realignment
of the universe, in response to your request!
If you boldly declare it to the universe,
it will change shape and create a path, at
least that’s what they say, and will help
you to your dream.
But, probably that’s not a yarn for people
like you, but THIS? You will surely agree.
If you have an accountability partner, for
example, “Hey, I will pick you up on the
way to the gym, let us do it together, you
stand at the street corner”, if you tie
something like that with somebody, would you
dare miss one day’s Gym? He will skin you
alive the next day! Why? You have made another
person wake up, and stand and wait for you
in the cold in the middle of the road! So,
having an activity partner really helps!
There is another reason why the Power of Others
is very important. Instead of doing it just
for your own sake, if you start doing something
because you want somebody else to possibly
benefit from your improvement, it is a greater,
loftier, better WHY. Take this example itself,
of the person going to the gym, cycling, running,
waking up early. Will Smith in his autobiography
says, his obsession with fitness, his bullying
attitude, his anger, do you know where it
came from? It came from watching his Dad repeatedly
physically abuse his Mom. And, when he was
about 13 years old, Will Smith’s Mom leaves
home never to come back. So, Will Smith decides,
“I am going to get strong!” — When you
have something like that, “for the women
in my family, for my sister, for the girl
down the road, to protect them,..” you will
be able to manage this much easier than “I
am doing this so that I can show my biceps
on my Instagram account”..! The Power of
Others.
I am going to introduce this little beautiful
website and App to you. It is called HabitShare.
Available on iOS and Android. It is just a
beautiful social task tracker. If you have
set a goal, this will help you achieve it
repeatedly, and not just that, it is going
to let you introduce some friends into the
same game. And, they can watch your progress.
And they can encourage you along. They can
complain, criticise, warn. The best of all?
This App is completely free! I myself am a
slave to this App. I invite you to join up.
By the way, I have to share this as a closing
thought. All this while, we have been talking
about New Year Resolutions. And, I am quite
sure a particular special friend of mine would
have had this thought surely! And, for that
specific reason, I am placing this Calvin
and Hobbess comic strip for them! The Tiger
asks Calvin about his New Year Resolutions.
And, this is the wisecrack response, from
the boy! “Resolutions? Me?? Just what are
you implying? That I need to change?? Well,
Buddy, as far as I’m concerned, I’m perfect
the way I am!” So, … this is another stance
to have! You probably don’t need resolutions!
You are already very good, keep it up! Enjoy
life! Jan 1 is just another day! Thank you!
We will meet soon! I think it is on January
3rd. Bye bye!